hi I'm Miriam from BBC good food and I'm
going to show you how to sterilize jars
it's really important to do this
properly so that your jars are free from
any bacteria that might cause your
preserve to spoil when you store it
timing is quite important as well so
I've got some chutney over here which is
about 20 minutes away from being ready
and that's the perfect time to sterilize
the jars if you've got any jars with
these sort of rubber seals on them
they'll need to be sterilized separately
so just put them in a pan of boiling
water and simmer them for about 2-3
minutes and they'll be done so now I
need to wash these in hot soapy water
[Music]
so the jars are all clean and I've put
them upside down in roasting tin while
they're still wet because they're going
to dry in the oven as well my oven is
about 160 degrees fan 180 conventional
and they need to go in there for about
15 minutes my jars are hot straight from
the oven and you need to make sure that
your jars are hot and your preserve is
hot when you're putting it together
I've sterilized the lids as well in the
same way I'm transferring the chutney to
a jug so that it's a lot easier to get
it into the jars because you don't want
any of the chutney to go on the edges
you want to fill it so it's about two
centimeters from the top and I've
sterilized more jars and I think I'll
need because there's nothing worse than
coming to the end and you've not got
enough jars and we have to start the
sterilization process again if you've
got quite a chunky chutney like this one
might just want to give the jar a bit of
a tap to get rid of any air bubbles so I
can use jars with lids but if you want
to you can put a wax paper disc on top
of the chutney and then cover that with
some cellophane with an elastic band
around the top and you need to do that
when that's hot as well in a well
sterilized jar that's going to keep for
about six months but do check the rest
because some do vary and there you go
how to sterilized jars from BBC your
food
[Music]